Hello friends, we're gonna talk
about JavaScript and robotics.
Typically, in the earliest days we
wrote JavaScript in the browser, and
then we were like,
what if we did this in the server?
And then we were like, what if we then
also controlled hardware with it, right?
And so we're gonna talk about kinda
the different layers of that and
how to kinda work with all these things.
And I will tell you right now,
one of the focuses of this
workshop is not just how do I
do the standard Arduino stuff or
whatever hardware stuff
just with JavaScript.
I think one of the themes that we're
gonna kind of try to explore during this,
is how do we take advantage
of all three of those?
How do we take advantage of the fact that,
yes,
could you just write regular old
Arduino sketches in JavaScript?
You could.
Could you write any old Node code?
Of course you could, and browser code.
But in so far that we have all
three of those at our disposal,
what new avenues and things does that
open up for us, and what kind of ways
can we explore and build on top of
the three of those things together?
So it's not just necessarily
about how do I, and yes,
we will start with the hello world of
Arduino, can we get an LED to blink?
Yes, right.
Okay, but what if we could also use
that same technology, I don't know,
to start a web server?
And what also if we could use the same
technology to add event listeners to
buttons in the DOM?
And then how does that all kind of play
together with some interesting browser
APIs and stuff along those lines?
So kinda like looking at the,
not just how do we program in Arduino,
but what are the unique
things that we can do,
given that we have all these various
technologies at our disposal?
For this workshop,
we're gonna use this Arduino R3 board.
We, out of the box, literally,
everything that you need,
actually way more than you need,
is in this Arduino starter kit as well.
You can buy one of these, but you can
also, we'll actually make a list of just
the parts that we end up using
in this workshop as well.
But if you get that kit,
everything you need is in there.
So this is the Arduino R3, but
I will tell you that a lot of
the other options work just as well.
I've tried this on an Arduino Leonardo,
which is kind of the even
cheaper version of an R3.
I have tried this on the Arduino R4,
everything works great.
Even I've got over here, it's got some
wires in it so I'm not gonna pick it up
and lift it and show you, I've got
an off-brand Arduino board as well.
So the the nice part about the Arduinos,
is that it is like the lingua
franca of hardware, right?
[LAUGH] One would argue the jQuery or
the React of hardware, right?
And so it applies everywhere as well.
The one caveat is that
the Arduino has a few advantages.
One, it's ubiquitous.
Two, it's cheap, right?
And it's just a general, like,
Arduino R3 board will run you about $15.
Some of the other brand
ones are even cheaper.
And even the newer Arduino R4,
it's, I think, $22, right?
There are even cheaper options out there,
there is an Arduino mini,
most of these stuff works.
The disadvantage is that the Arduino
itself cannot run node on it,
does need to be plugged
into your computer, right?
There are a bunch of options, and we'll
have a slide talking about this later,
that there are a bunch of
options that also will run Node.
So let's say we did this on this thing
called the Tehsil 2, this thing will run
Node on it, it has an ethernet port, it
has two USB, like outs as well as one in.
The disadvantage to this, is they
don't make it anymore, [LAUGH], right?
There are options out there, you can
run a lot of this on a Raspberry Pi,
the BeagleBone Black and some of the other
BeagleBone products can run Node.
And the nice part is, having looked at
the previous version of this workshop,
and kinda preparing for this new one,
almost everything applies if you move to
one of those platforms as well, right?
I had to rewrite very little of
the code other than updating like just
generally VARs to constant and let
because it was no longer 2017.
And I could do stuff like that, and
writing the odd async await occasionally,
other than my own personal tastes.
Everything we do today on the Arduinos can
apply to any of these other platforms, but
like I said, the huge advantages
of the Arduino, it is cheap.
It is like by definition,
the foundation for a lot of these things.
So you know that you will always be
able to probably get your hands on one,
very easy.
But should you be like, hey,
I want something that can actually host
the entire Node environment on it,
there are some other options that come and
go, but the actual concepts, all apply.
And the last time we didn't end up
unplugging from the laptop anyway.
So we've got the Arduinos as
kind of the standard foundation.
You can take in various
different directions,
everything applies in every direction.
Can confirm, tried it out myself,
can make promises.
But let's talk about the Arduino R3.
And again if you have an Arduino R4,
there's literally no difference at all,
other than it happens to
be a little faster and
have a little bit more memory and
stuff along those lines.
But the actual layout and everything
along those lines is exactly the same.
Even with the Leonardo, the only real
difference is it's a USB mini port
instead of a full size USB port, right?
And on the R4, it's USB-C.
So that's gonna be the major
differentiator which is what dongle or
adapter you need.
But let's talk a little bit about
the layout of the board itself.
In this example, you've got the USB port.
I don't need to explain that too much.
Along the top you have digital pins.
Digital, 1s and 0s, ons and offs.
You've got the microcontroller
that's doing all the hard work in
the middle there.
And then along the bottom
you have analog pens.
These are for analog electric signals like
turning, they read the amount of voltage
coming through the circuit and
allow you to program based on that.
And then towards the bottom
you have just ground, 5 volt,
3.5 volts, or 3.3 volts, rather,
and stuff along those lines.
So very kinda simple set of
general purpose input and
output that we'll be using to kinda
wire up most of our circuits today.
Then let's talk about the kinda
layers of software in our lives.
The basis here is,
this is a screenshot of the Arduino IDE,
which if you do not have
you should download.
Now we'll be using it in a little bit.
Arduino IDE will basically find any
Arduino you can put into your computer and
allow you to upload code to it.
That said,
the Arduino environment itself is what
we can generally call
a superset on top of C++.
So for anything you do here,
you will be writing C++,
which as just a life choice, I've chosen
not to do it more than I need to.
So I'll be using it at the very
beginning to do like the hello world to
just get a feel of the Arduino.
And to load on some basic ways,
should be able to load JavaScript and
stuff along those lines.
And eventually, towards the end,
we'll just kinda look at the fact that
these days, there are APIs in the browser
that let you talk over serial
to various pieces of hardware.
So we'll load on a little bit different
firmware at that point as well.
But if you've got starter kit, there's
a book of projects in there as well,
those are all using
the regular Arduino C++.
I'm not going to read a book to you.
We're gonna kinda focus on
the JavaScript part of this, but
most things you'll see translate fairly
easily in both directions as well.
But when it come down to, hey,
web servers, or use websockets, or
something along those lines, or send HTTP
requests aboard, that is where we kinda
get the full power of Node.js, and
we will be able to leverage that as well.
So we live in the JavaScript
world on top of that.
That said, so then how do you run
JavaScript on a board like this?
There's a number of layers that
kinda get you all the way there.
And so let's kinda start, I think,
closest to the metal if you will,
which is this library,
which has been around forever,
called Node Serial Port.
And this basically is a library
that allows you to send serial
messages to hardware.
The most common in this
case being an Arduino.
It is incredibly low level.
It is like you're sending packets and
binary data back and forth.
An option that you can use, but we'll
talk about why you might not want to,
because you could write
your own abstractions, or
the fact that the same team just
gave you progressively more layers.
On top of that, we have Firmata.js.
So Firmata is a set of firmware for
an Arduino that kinda have generalized
ways that you can talk to
the board from not Arduino.
So in this case, Firmata is a kind of,
from the raw serial messages to more
JavaScript methods that can send stuff to
and from the board, we've got Firmata.js.
And the most of the methods
on there are very
similar to what you might see in Arduino,
right?
And so it is very close to that
particular set of methods and
stuff along those lines.
And then built on top of
Firmata.js is Johnny-Five?
I think a great,
I already used this analogy, but
I'm just gonna reuse it cuz it's worth it.
Johnny-Five is like,
if you think about just a regular DOM
manipulation, like pre jQuery, right?
And having to remember stuff about,
Internet Explorer needs this,
eventually works like this in Internet Explorer,
but in Firefox they work like this.
And all of those details,
Johnny-Five is the jQuery for all of that.
Which is Johnny-Five when I talked about
all the code that we wrote works across
a lot of different boards, including
ones that are no longer even made.
Johnny-Five is the kind of
abstraction layer over that.
So it gives you the ability to
write a lot of these things, and
then like, okay,
I'm not gonna use an Arduino board,
I'm gonna use an old Tehsil 2 that
I have around, you just swap out.
Just say, hey, I'm gonna use the Tehsil 2,
and Johnny-Five is like, cool,
I know what to do here, don't worry
about it, everything's gonna be okay.
So it gives you a lot of just very
convenient easy ways to interact with
your boards on top of the other
two libraries that we saw earlier.
Like I said BeagleBones, Raspberry Pi's,
there's even various different
you can actually hook an Arduino up to
these like various different shields.
So a lot of this stuff will apply
to any other platforms that you
may choose to use.
We won't use this one today,
but I think it's really cool.
My friend, Suz, made this library called
AVRGirl, which is just a library that you
can take Arduino sketches and
load them onto devices with Node as well.
At this point,
we're just gonna hit the Upload button in
Arduino cuz it's very easy for us, and
we're only gonna need to do this once or
twice, but it is a super cool library.
It's also got experimental support for
what we'll see towards the end just as
a little taste, which is just
looking at the web serial API.
Like I said before, it lets you control
some of the stuff from the browser.
But basically it allows you to
kind of just load sketches on and
have all that at your disposal.
And like I said, the web serial API,
I wouldn't build production
apps on top of it, right?
Cuz can I use support isn't great, but
I think it's still an experimental API for
the most part, but
it does let you send serial messages and
do a lot of this stuff without Node,
right?
So more like JavaScript bots cuz
you can literally open up Chrome,
connect to, in this case an Arduino,
but also other stuff.
I have a guitar pedal that's
registered with my computer for
serial messages over Bluetooth, and
it showed up on the list of things that I
could theoretically talk
to from my web browser.
And so being able to do all that from
the browser is also incredibly cool,
as you can see, incredibly experimental,
but very cool at the same time.